#### Why trade spreads?

Up to this point, we’ve looked at single-leg options strategies—covered calls and cash-secured puts. Now, we’re going to shift our focus to **two-leg strategies,** specifically **vertical spreads**. As you know, spreads are strategies that involve combining two or more options legs in a single trade. Many traders use spreads because they’re capital-efficient and can allow traders to **define** their risk and return. Let’s talk about each of these reasons individually.

First, spreads are  **capital-efficient** because they allow traders to potentially participate in the gains of the underlying without having to put up the capital to invest in the underlying itself (like with covered calls and cash-secured puts). However, they can have substantial transaction costs compared to other basic options trades because of the number of contracts involved. Depending on how they’re constructed, spreads can make long options cheaper if a short option is sold to offset the cost. And they can make short options less capital intensive if a long option is bought to hedge the risk.

Second, certain spread strategies like verticals have  **defined risk**  **and return** potential. To better understand how this works, let’s look at the risk profile for short and long options separately, then see what happens when the two are combined. For this example, we’ll use calls. Take a look at the short call risk profile. When you sell a call option, there’s limited maximum gain with unlimited maximum loss.


<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTM3ODUzNTUzOF19
-->