#### How Futures Work

In order to understand how futures work, it helps to understand where they came from. We’ll discuss the formation of the Chicago exchange, the market’s participants, and what the futures market looks like today.

The first U.S. futures exchange appeared in 19th  century Chicago, Illinois. Before the establishment of the futures exchanges, Midwest farmers took their crops to Chicago to sell them. Because farmers were all harvesting at the same time of year, the huge supply of grain often made prices fall, which meant a smaller payday. Some farmers failed to find a buyer at all, leaving them with a wagon full of unsaleable goods that were often dumped in the streets or in Lake Michigan.

The creation of futures contracts solved this problem. Futures allowed farmers to find a buyer ahead of time and lock in a price for their crop. Farmers were able to transfer the price risk because the price was predetermined. They passed on the risk to the user or speculator—a person willing to hold the contract and bet on the direction of the underlying’s price movements. So, even if prices fell, farmers would already have a seller and a price for their goods. However, this also meant that if prices rose, farmers would lose out on the gains to the speculator, but that was the risk farmers were willing to take for the certainty of a buyer.

*Participants*

Two market participants rose out of the creation of the futures market: **hedgers** and **speculators**. When talking about the overall futures market, hedgers include producers and users who are able to find a buyer or seller and set a price. Speculators are institutions or individuals looking to profit from changes in futures contract prices.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTMwNzcwMjQxNl19
-->